---
title: Life is Strange
subtitle: Emotionally Shattering Journey
excerpt: An emotionally shattering, thrilling adventure with a stunning and nuanced exploration of the strength and fragility of the human spirit.
ratingScore: 10
ratingMax: 10
ratingComment: Must Play Experience
backdrop: /images/articles/backdrops/the-last-of-us-part-2.jpg
cover: /images/articles/images/tlou2-0.jpg
category: Game
hidden: true
---

The Last of Us is one of the rare beloved games of the past decade that not only didn’t demand a sequel, but
actively seemed to resist the idea of one. Its story is largely poignant because of how self-contained it
is: not knowing what happened between Joel and Ellie after his fateful, final decision burned a mark into
the brains of many who played it, and that open-ended question has lingered for years. But with The Last of
Us Part 2, developer Naughty Dog rises to that challenge with not only a complex, profound story that gives
it a reason to exist, but also deep and satisfying evolutions to the original’s third-person action/stealth
gameplay.

![The Last of Us Part II Screenshot 1](/images/articles/images/tlou2-1.jpg)

I can’t tell you much about some of Part 2’s best aspects, but not because I don’t want to – I’m bursting to
talk with anyone about all the moving, uplifting, and heart-wrenching moments that have been replaying in my
mind for days since I first beat this adventure. But doing so would strip away layers of the act of playing
through Part 2 yourself, so I’ll speak about its story in largely general terms.

One of Part 2’s biggest achievements is how it knowingly handles the weighted expectations that a sequel to
one of the most heralded game stories of all time will inevitably carry with fans. It starts out seemingly
simple, taking place about four years after the end of the original and setting an older, angrier, but
still-immune Ellie on a quest for revenge that also hones in on the cycles of violence that can plague
humanity as much as any infection. It knowingly leans into the tropes of the genre, such as guilt by
association and the inevitable escalation of matching an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But those
cliches are often subverted, playing into the expansive and not-so-straightforward path ahead.

![The Last of Us Part II Screenshot 2](/images/articles/images/tlou2-2.png)

# Something Much More Ambitious

From there, Ellie’s journey grows into something much more ambitious. Part 2 deftly handles a war on the
streets of post-zombie-apocalypse Seattle, an expansive new cast of characters, and some gut-punch payoffs
to the lingering emotions The Last of Us’ powerful ending left me stirring over for the last seven years.
The Last of Us Part 2’s story is handled as masterfully as it was in the original.

![The Last of Us Part II Screenshot 3](/images/articles/images/tlou2-3.png)

One of the most impactful ways Part 2 hearkens back to The Last of Us is how it asks you to identify and
empathize with its characters, even when you almost certainly won’t always agree with their actions. In a
medium often defined by giving us the power to choose what happens, The Last of Us and Part 2 concern
themselves more with fully realized characters, asking us to take them as they are. Naughty Dog’s characters
are indelible, which makes for incredibly powerful and challenging moments when you’re put in Ellie's shoes
and asked to act out her whims yourself.

![The Last of Us Part II Screenshot 4](/images/articles/images/tlou2-4.png)

Part 2 is peppered with brutal, tragic, and poignant moments that hit harder because you take part in them,
like it or not. Even if I disagreed with an action, I didn’t have a choice in the matter. I was asked to
execute those actions or watch them happen without a chance to intercede, and to understand the reasoning
behind them from their perspective. This dance between interactivity and an unalterable story made for a
much more affecting experience than if I’d watched it all unfold in a movie.

# I Am Not Alone, Dear Loneliness

At the heart of it all is Ellie and her relationships. Ellie has had time to both find herself in the
Jackson, Wyoming settlement she and her flawed father figure Joel call home and to reflect on the formative
moments of her childhood. Uncovering what she knows and where she stands with Joel and his brother Tommy,
is, at different times painful, amusing, and cathartic, but always in ways that are true to what I knew of
these characters.

Actors Troy Baker and Ashley Johnson once again bring so much heart and honesty in their performances as
Joel and Ellie, respectively. Ellie is, without a doubt, the protagonist of Part 2, and Johnson brings
nuance to every facet of Ellie’s character. Watching her grow up and wrestle with her past while still
learning who she is as a 19-year-old (with all the usual desires and shortfalls 19-year-olds generally
possess) is riveting at every step. She delivers some of the most human moments that Part 2 serves up.

# Even when she does horrible things, her motivations are just as legitimate as Joel's or Ellie's.

Part 2 also introduces a great cast of supporting characters. Shannon Woodward is instantly charming as
Dina, bringing a joy and kindness to a world where it’s otherwise so tough to find. Woodward shines in the
smaller moments — a joking jab at Ellie here or an amusing aside about their Jackson homestead, there —
offering so much dimension to the character. It’s also important to highlight, in spoiler-free terms, the
incredible performance by Laura Bailey (known for her roles as Mary Jane from Marvel’s Spider-Man and Kait
Diaz from Gears 5, among numerous others) as a new character. Like so many of The Last of Us’ characters,
calling her good or evil would be reductive – we see her at her best and most relatable as well as her
worst. It’s a testament to The Last of Us Part 2’s script by Neil Druckmann and Halley Gross and Bailey’s
performance that even when she does horrible things, her motivations are just as legitimate and arguably
noble as Joel’s or Ellie’s.

# Verdict

The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpiece worthy of its predecessor. Taking strides forward in nearly every
way, Ellie steps into the spotlight and carries the sequel in a manner that feels like the culmination of
everything that’s made Naughty Dog’s blockbuster storytelling so memorable since the original Uncharted on
the PlayStation 3. It delivers a layered, emotionally shattering story on top of stealth and action gameplay
that improves the first game’s mechanics while integrating a bit more of Uncharted’s greater mobility and
action. But while Part 2 is a thrilling adventure, it still makes time for a stunning, nuanced exploration
of the strength and fragility of the human spirit. The PlayStation 4 has one of its best exclusives in one
of the generation’s best games.
